Language Acquisition is a natural and instinctive process through which humans acquire the ability to perceive, produce and use words to understand and communicate in the world. This process starts even before birth, and continues throughout life [1]. The early years are crucial for language development, and some studies have shown how symbolic gestures affect the child's overall learning and communication skills for the rest of their lives [2]. However, learning a new language or improving linguistic skills is a lifelong endeavour that can be pursued at any age.

The advent of modern computing has significantly impacted how individuals approach language acquisition, with tools that make learning more accessible, engaging, and effective. Popular [[Language Learning Apps]] make use of cognitive science and create systems to try and boost the long-term retention of language concepts, such as [[Spaced Repetition System]] and [[Gamification of Language Learning]].

Technology has allowed us to go even deeper into understanding the functioning of our brains, and that is especially true in the realm of language acquisition. A 2019 Swedish study highlighted that foreign language learning has a visible impact on the brain. Young military recruits who were exposed to language-related tasks in Arabic/Russian/Dari exhibited *significant* neural changes compared to a control group that did not [3]. This neural reorganization, often termed as **Brain Plasticity**, is associated with second language acquisition and learning, which has been a big focal point in research in the past two decades.

The collaboration between cognitive neuroscience and linguistic research is bridging the gap between the neural and behavioural aspects of language learning, particularly focusing on second language acquisition [4]. Studies have dived into the cortical plasticity concerning this type of learning, and new findings even focus on the function of the grammar center, showcasing how the brain's structural and functional attributes evolve with language development and learning [5].

This mix between computing technology, cognitive science, and linguistic theories is a new area of research and its leading into innovative platforms that aid in language acquisition. Each of these different facets of research show the profound influence of modern technology in delving into the complicate neural networks associated with this process. This opens new ways for enhancing and augmenting language learning methodologies and tools, which benefits all of us.

## References
[1] B. S. Kisilevsky _et al._, “Effects of experience on fetal voice recognition,” _Psychological Science_, vol. 14, no. 3, pp. 220–224, 2003. doi:10.1111/1467-9280.02435
[2] S. W. Goodwyn, L. P. Acredolo, and C. A. Brown, “Impact of Symbolic Gesturing on Early Language Development,” _Journal of Nonverbal Behavior_, vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 81–103, 2000. doi:10.1023/a:1006653828895
[3] J. Mårtensson _et al._, “Growth of language-related brain areas after foreign language learning,” _NeuroImage_, vol. 63, no. 1, pp. 240–244, 2012. doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.06.043
[4] G. Luk, C. Pliatsikas, and E. Rossi, “Brain changes associated with language development and learning: A Primer on methodology and applications,” _System_, vol. 89, p. 102209, 2020. doi:10.1016/j.system.2020.102209
[5] K. L. Sakai, “Language acquisition and brain development,” _Science_, vol. 310, no. 5749, pp. 815–819, 2005. doi:10.1126/science.1113530