Language learning has evolved significantly in recent years with the advancement of technology. Learners have been able to take advantage of new technologies by creating [[Language Learning Apps]] to improve their language studies. These apps employ various techniques to optimize the learning process and help learners acquire fluency in their new languages more efficiently. Two techniques which have gained immense popularity are Spaced Repetition System (SRS) and [[Gamification of Language Learning]]. 
## Understanding the Spacing Effect
The spacing effect (or distributed practice[1]) is the observation that study sessions that can be characterized by intervals of time between study periods demonstrate better learning outcomes than studying which occurs in a single continuous session (mass studying) [1]  [2]  [3]. This technique has been investigated in many studies and experiments, which have demonstrated the advantages of this technique[1], with many emphasizing its ability to improve long-term retention of the learnt material and the long-term retention further improving when the intervals between study periods are increased. SRS take advantage of the spacing effect phenomenon to design study systems that are more effective for language learners. 
## Benefits of Spaced Repetition
Spaced repetition cognitively augments the learners as, unlike mass studying which eliminates the recall process [1], this techniques forces learners to recall information from their memory. An experiment conducted on college students who were asked to memorize the Athenian Oath (can be seen below)[4] illustrates some of the benefits of spaced repetition. The first group read the oath 6 times in succession while the second group read the oath 3 times in one day then 3 times 3 days later [4]. Both groups were asked to write down what they remember of the oath after the 6th reading and again 4 weeks later. It was found the first group performed slightly better in the immediate recall, the average scoring 4 points more, but the spaced group performed significantly better in the delayed test, the average being 11 points greater than the non-spaced group [4]. Although massed studying may produce better immediate (short-term) results, in subjects such as language learning where vocabulary must be remembered long-term to be successful, techniques which improve the long-term retention powerful in improving the learning process. 

> THE ATHENIAN OATH[4]
> I will never disgrace these sacred arms, nor desert my companion in the ranks 1 will fight for temples and public property, both alone and with many. I ujll transmit my fatherland, not only not less, but greater and better than it was transmitted to me. I will obey the magistrates who may at any time be in power. 1 \\ ill observe both the existing laws and those which the people may unanimously hereafter make, and, if any person seek to annul the laws or to set them at nought, I mil do my best to prevent him, and will defend them both alone and with many. I will honor the religion of my fathers.

Similar results were found in a study conducted on 140 first-year English majors in Japan which compared results from 2 groups, one group which used an SRS system called CALL and one group which utilized a vocabulary notebook[5]. The vocabulary notebooks contained part of speech, L2 definition, L1 translation and example sentences exercises. Both groups studied the same 36 English words for 2 months and were estimated to have spent an equivalent amount of time studying the material. Both groups showed similar short term achievements with their scores at the 2 month vocabulary test[5]. However, in a delayed test that took place 2.5 months after, the vocabulary notebook group's performance decreased by 14% while the CALL group's only declined by 5%[5]. This shows that although SRS and vocabulary notebooks may perform similarly short-term, SRS outperforms for long-term retention which is immensely important in [[Language Acquisition]].
## SRS in Language Learning Apps and Classrooms
Many [[Language Learning Apps]] utilize SRS such as the popular app, Duolingo, or the flashcard tool, Anki. One experiment investigated how medical school student's performance on the MCAT was affected by utilizing Anki[6]. Comparing the exam scores between Anki users and non-users, it was found that Anki users achieved a significant higher grade than non-users, with the mean score differences ranging from 6.2 to 10.7, differing between courses[6]. 

Another experiment was conducted on 62 students in a beginners spanish class. This study found a positive correlation between the number of days a student used Anki to study and the grade they achieved[7]. Although this experiment found that Anki did help the student's that utilized the tool, many students did not use the tool the recommended amount. It was also found that some students did not want to use the tool as they didn't want to study "old" words which would not be tested[7]. These factors can be linked to the learner's motivation. To increase motivation, other techniques such as [[Gamification of Language Learning]] should be considered when designing [[Language Learning Apps]]. 
## Future Prospects
SRS has become a valuable tool for cognitive augmentation that optimizes memory retention. It is an established technique with proven benefits yet studies are still being conducted to determine whether there is an optimal spacing lag[1] and how classrooms can integrate this technique in classrooms[7]. The positive results achieved through this technique serve for as a model for future language learning systems which will hopefully better assist language learners in effectively acquiring a new language.
## References
[1] S. H. Kang, “Spaced repetition promotes efficient and effective learning,” _Policy Insights from the Behavioral and Brain Sciences_, vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 12–19, 2016. doi:10.1177/2372732215624708
[2] F. N. Dempster, “Spacing effects and their implications for theory and Practice,” _Educational Psychology Review_, vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 309–330, 1989. doi:10.1007/bf01320097
[3] B. Settles and B. Meeder, “A trainable spaced repetition model for language learning,” _Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)_, 2016. doi:10.18653/v1/p16-1174
[4] K. Gordon, “Class results with spaced and unspaced memorizing.,” _Journal of Experimental Psychology_, vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 337–343, 1925. doi:10.1037/h0064623
[5] R. Hirschel and E. Fritz, “Learning vocabulary: Call program versus vocabulary notebook,” _System_, vol. 41, no. 3, pp. 639–653, 2013. doi:10.1016/j.system.2013.07.016
[6] M. M. Gilbert _et al._, “A cohort study assessing the impact of Anki as a spaced repetition tool on academic performance in Medical School,” _Medical Science Educator_, vol. 33, no. 4, pp. 955–962, 2023. doi:10.1007/s40670-023-01826-8
[7] A. E. Seibert Hanson and C. M. Brown, “Enhancing L2 learning through a mobile assisted spaced-repetition tool: An effective but bitter pill?,” _Computer Assisted Language Learning_, vol. 33, no. 1–2, pp. 133–155, 2019. doi:10.1080/09588221.2018.1552975
