The need for better communication between people that speak different languages has always been existing since the dawn of human society. When it comes to this, people would naturally think of ways to become bilingual. However, language acquisition is a grand topic which involves many complexities. A lot of approaches have been proposed to help people become bilingual, such as [[Language Learning Apps]], [[Spaced Repetition System]] and so on. We could also switch our standpoint on this. Our goal is to better the communication between speakers of different languages. Towards this purpose, whatever approaches that could improve some aspects of language learning and teaching that are essentially beneficial for the communication and understanding between people who speak different languages are desirable. There are 2 of these methods worth noticing, Visual-Auditory Shadowing (VAS) and Structural-Visual Method (SVM), respectively, aiming at improving different aspects of language leaning and teaching[1]. Both of these methods can also be improved by utilising computer systems and the combined use of both methods will lead to a synergistic effect in the learning process.

## Shadowing method
The study of cognition shows that it is necessary to develop a phonological loop to be able to understand what is heard. The shadowing method is one of the best approaches for this. Shadowing is “an act or a task of listening in which the learners track what he/she heard in speech and repeats it as accurately as possible while listening attentively to the in-coming information[2]. The shadowing method is effective in improving phonological loop process, and it leads to improvement in listening skills.

## Visual Auditory shadowing(VAS)
It is often the case that language learners understand written input(visual input) but not spoken input(auditory input). For example, language listeners often mistake auditory input such as "I won't go to London" as "I want to go to London",although they can understand the same input if it is presented visually. This is due to the fact that English is spoken differently to what learners might expect from its written form. One possible strategy to facilitate learning of phonetic variations is to match visual input with phonetic variety of auditory input. This can be achieved through Visual Auditory shadowing.
Visual Auditory shadowing method[3] is a combination of auditory shadowing and visual shadowing. Auditory shadowing refers to the task of repeating an incoming voice as soon as it is heard. It requires so-called online processing of auditory input, which requires listening and repetition at the same time. Visual shadowing is a task that requires learners to orally repeat visually displayed input that is synchronised to the speed of auditory input. Visual shadowing requires learners to read text aloud employing online processing. Visual Auditory shadowing method better improves learners’ listening skills, compared to shadowing method alone.

## Structural-Visual Method(SVM)
When researching the ways to accelerate the achievement of competence in certain aspects of the language, one tough scenario is the the application of grammatical rules as the understanding and application of these rules is the same language activity. Structural-Visual Method is proposed to solve this problem. Structural-Visual Method adds a physical or visual component to tasks to assist learners in understanding how exactly an activity should be completed. In the case of language acquisition, different coloured boxes are assigned with different components to help the learners learn the pattern.
The Structural-Visual Method[1] in linguistics is a mapping of the structure of linguistic knowledge in a graphic form using the colour of visual objects to encode the most common patterns. The models thus obtained replace the textual explanations (rules) in the formation of the corresponding skills.
For the application of the SVM in linguistics, it is proposed to encode information on the method of constructing an English sentence using spatial placement and the form of visual objects, and about temporal forms and related senses-using spatial placement and colour.

## Computing systems based on these Methods
In terms of Computing systems based on these Methods, there are quite a few works. One of the most recent papers is by Imad Tahini and Alex Dadykin[4], in which they present their steps to implement our proposed architecture based on a visual model as a platform in mobile application with the establishment of content management system to provide the process of controlling the formation of speech skills and allowing the transition from foreign language learning to its improvement and acceleration.

## Reference
[1] Tahini, I.H., Nakayama, T., Dibrova, V.A. and Dadykin, А.K., 2018. Cognitive psychology models and approaches to develop language skills. _International Journal of Social Science and Humanity_, _8_(4), pp.110-115.
[2] K. Tamai, Research on the Effect of Shadowing As a Listening Instruction Method, Tokyo: Kazama Shobo, 2005.
[3] NAKAYAMA, T. and MORI, T., 2012. Efficacy of visual-auditory shadowing. _Eibeibunka: Studies in English Language, Literature and Culture_, _42_, pp.55-68.
[4] Tahini, I., Dadykin, A. (2022). Implementation Mobile App for Foreign Language Acquisition Based on Structural Visual Method. In: Smys, S., Bestak, R., Palanisamy, R., Kotuliak, I. (eds) Computer Networks and Inventive Communication Technologies . Lecture Notes on Data Engineering and Communications Technologies, vol 75. Springer, Singapore. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-16-3728-5_51